>> Woodruff: WALL STREET
SUFFERED ANOTHER DAY OF LOSSES
WITH INTERNET AND BIOTECHNOLOGY
STOCKS, WHICH NOT LONG AGO
SPURRED A BOOM, NOW DRIVING THE
DECLINES.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, JEFFREY BROWN AND
POET LAUREATE NATASHA TRETHEWEY
TRAVEL TO MISSISSIPPI AND
ALABAMA TO FIND "WHERE POETRY
LIVES," AND DISCOVER HOW SONG
AND VERSE WERE INSTRUMENTAL IN
THE CIVIL RIGHTS STRUGGLE.
>> WORDS MEANT EVERYTHING.
WORDS, MUSIC!
WHAT'S NOT WORD?
WHAT'S NOT THE SPOKEN WORD?
SELMA AND THE MOVEMENT WOULD
HAVE BEEN LIKE A BIRD WITHOUT
WINGS.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S FRIDAY--
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
FORMALLY NOMINATED HIS CHOICE
TODAY TO BE THE NEXT U.S.
SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES.
AND HE PRAISED THE WOMAN WHO'S
HELD THE JOB FOR FIVE YEARS,
DURING THE BATTLE OVER HEALTH
CARE REFORM.
>> KATHLEEN WILL GO DOWN IN
HISTORY FOR SERVING AS THE
SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES WHEN THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA FINALLY DECLARED THAT
QUALITY AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE
IS NOT A PRIVILEGE, BUT IT IS A
RIGHT FOR EVERY SINGLE CITIZEN
OF THESE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
A BOISTEROUS CROWD JOINED IN
GIVING KATHLEEN SEBELIUS A ROSE
GARDEN SEND-OFF AND DEFENDING
HIS AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
SEBELIUS WAS A POPULAR FORMER
GOVERNOR OF KANSAS WHEN SHE CAME
TO H.H.S. IN 2009.
BUT SHE TOOK HEAVY CRITICISM
OVER THE CALAMITOUS LAUNCH OF
THE GOVERNMENT WEBSITE FOR
HEALTH INSURANCE ENROLLMENT,
LEADING TO MULTIPLE MEA CULPAS
TO CONGRESS.
>> I AM AS FRUSTRATED AND ANGRY
AS ANYONE WITH THE FLAWED LAUNCH
OF healthcare.gov, SO LET ME SAY
DIRECTLY TO THESE AMERICANS--
YOU DESERVE BETTER.
I APOLOGIZE.
>> Woodruff: STILL, HER TENURE
ENDED ON A HIGH NOTE AS SHE
ANNOUNCED YESTERDAY THAT AT
LEAST 7.5 MILLION AMERICANS HAVE
NOW ENROLLED IN THE INSURANCE
EXCHANGES.
>> SHE'S GOT BUMPS.
I'VE GOT BUMPS, BRUISES.
BUT UNDER KATHLEEN'S LEADERSHIP,
HER TEAM AT H.H.S. TURNED THE
CORNER, GOT IT FIXED, GOT THE
JOB DONE, AND THE FINAL SCORE
SPEAKS FOR ITSELF.
>> Woodruff: SEBELIUS HERSELF
SUGGESTED THE OPPORTUNITY TO
IMPLEMENT NATIONAL HEALTH REFORM
HAS BEEN WORTH IT.
>> THIS IS THE MOST MEANINGFUL
WORK I'VE EVER BEEN A PART OF.
IN FACT, IT'S BEEN THE CAUSE OF
MY LIFE.
I KNEW IT WOULDN'T BE EASY.
THERE IS A REASON THAT NO
EARLIER PRESIDENT WAS SUCCESSFUL
IN PASSING HEALTH REFORM,
DESPITE DECADES OF ATTEMPTS.
>> Woodruff: TO REPLACE
SEBELIUS, THE PRESIDENT TAPPED
SYLVIA MATHEWS BURWELL, HEAD OF
THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND
BUDGET.
THE SENATE UNANIMOUSLY CONFIRMED
HER FOR THAT JOB LAST YEAR, BUT
REPUBLICAN OPPOSITION TO THE
HEALTH CARE LAW COULD MEAN A
TOUGHER TIME THIS GO-ROUND.
SENATE MINORITY LEADER MITCH
THE WHITE HOUSE CONFIRMED TODAY
THAT IRAN'S NEW AMBASSADOR TO
THE UNITED NATIONS IN NEW YORK
WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO ENTER THE
UNITED STATES.
A SPOKESMAN SAID THE ENVOY WAS
REFUSED A VISA BECAUSE HE WAS
INVOLVED IN SEIZING THE U.S.
EMBASSY IN TEHRAN IN 1979.
DENYING VISAS TO U.N. DIPLOMATS
IS RARE, AND IRAN SAID THE
DECISION WAS "REGRETTABLE".
AUSTRALIA'S PRIME MINISTER HAS
RAISED NEW HOPES THAT SEARCH
TEAMS ARE CLOSER TO FINDING WHAT
REMAINS OF MALAYSIA AIRLINES
FLIGHT 370.
VISITING CHINA, TONY ABBOTT SAID
THE SIGNALS DETECTED UNDERWATER
ARE HELPING MAKE THEIR SEARCH
AREA EVEN MORE TARGETED.
>> WE HAVE VERY MUCH NARROWED
DOWN THE SEARCH AREA.
WE'RE NOW GETTING TO THE STAGE
WHERE THE SIGNAL, FROM WHAT WE
ARE VERY CONFIDENT IS THE BLACK
BOXES STARTING TO FADE, AND WE
ARE HOPING TO GET AS MUCH
INFORMATION AS WE CAN BEFORE THE
SIGNAL FINALLY EXPIRES.
>> Woodruff: AIR CREWS DROPPED
MORE SONAR BUOYS TODAY, BUT DID
NOT PICK UP ANY NEW PINGS.
PLANES ALSO KEPT UP THE VISUAL
SEARCH FOR DEBRIS ON THE SURFACE
OF THE INDIAN OCEAN.
INVESTIGATORS IN NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA ARE SEARCHING FOR
ANSWERS AFTER A FIERY TRUCK-BUS
COLLISION KILLED TEN PEOPLE
YESTERDAY.
MANY WERE HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS
ON A TRIP TO VISIT A COLLEGE.
EXPLOSIONS COULD BE SEEN FROM
MILES AWAY AFTER A TRUCK VEERED
ACROSS A MEDIAN AND SLAMMED INTO
THE BUS.
SURVIVORS ESCAPED BY BREAKING
THROUGH WINDOWS.
SOME WERE IN CRITICAL CONDITION
TODAY.
PROTESTERS IN EASTERN UKRAINE
HELD OUT IN TWO CITIES TODAY, AS
A DEADLINE FOR SURRENDER CAME
AND WENT, WITHOUT POLICE ACTION.
THE PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS HAVE
OCCUPIED GOVERNMENT OFFICE
BUILDINGS IN LUHANSK AND
DONETSK.
THEY'RE FLYING RUSSIAN FLAGS AND
CALLING FOR A REFERENDUM LIKE
CRIMEA'S.
UKRAINIAN PRIME MINSTER ARSENY
YATSENYUK VISITED DONETSK TODAY
AND SAID HE'S OPEN TO POLITICAL
CHANGES.
>> ( translated ): THE MAIN GOAL
IS TO SATISFY PEOPLE WHO WANT TO
SEE MORE POWERS GIVEN TO
REGIONS.
THIS CAN BE IMPLEMENTED WITHIN
THE FRAMEWORK OF CONSTITUTIONAL
REFORMS BY ABOLISHING LOCAL
ADMINISTRATION AND STRUCTURES,
AND PASSING ALL POWERS TO
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES WHICH WILL
BE ELECTED BY THE LOCAL
POPULATION.
>> Woodruff: YATSENYUK ALSO
WARNED THE PROTESTERS THEY MAY
YET BE FORCED OUT IF THEY REFUSE
TO GIVE UP.
POPE FRANCIS TOOK PERSONAL
RESPONSIBILITY TODAY FOR
CATHOLIC PRIESTS WHO SEXUALLY
MOLESTED CHILDREN, AND HE BEGGED
FORGIVENESS.
IT WAS THE FIRST SUCH STATEMENT
BY ANY PONTIFF OVER THE ABUSE
SCANDAL THAT NOW SPANS TWO
DECADES.
THE POPE SPOKE IN VATICAN CITY
TO A FRENCH CATHOLIC NETWORK OF
ORGANIZATIONS THAT PROTECT
CHILDREN'S RIGHTS.
>> ( translated ): I FEEL
COMPELLED TO TAKE UPON MYSELF
ALL THE EVIL THAT SOME PRIESTS,
QUITE A FEW IN NUMBER, BUT
OBVIOUSLY NOT SO MANY IN
RELATION TO THE TOTAL NUMBER OF
PRIESTS, TO TAKE UPON MYSELF ALL
THE EVIL, AND ASK FORGIVENESS
FOR THE DAMAGE THEY INFLICTED
FOR THE SEXUAL ABUSE OF
CHILDREN.
>> Woodruff: LAST MONTH, THE
POPE NAMED SOME OF THE FIRST
MEMBERS TO A HIGH-LEVEL
COMMISSION TO ADVISE HIM ON HOW
TO PREVENT SEXUAL ABUSE IN THE
CHURCH.
FIRST LADY MICHELLE OBAMA AND
THE VICE PRESIDENT'S WIFE, JILL
BIDEN, PLEDGED NEW HELP TODAY
FOR SOME 5.5 MILLION AMERICANS
CARING FOR WOUNDED TROOPS AND
VETERANS.
FORMER FIRST LADY ROSALYNN
CARTER AND FORMER SENATOR
ELIZABETH DOLE JOINED IN
ANNOUNCING A SERIES OF
INITIATIVES.
THEY INCLUDE EXPANDED
COUNSELING, JOB TRAINING AND
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.
PRESIDENT AND MRS. OBAMA HAVE
RELEASED THEIR INCOME TAX
RETURNS FOR 2013.
THEY PAID JUST OVER $98,000 IN
FEDERAL TAXES ON INCOME OF ABOUT
$480,000.
THAT'S AN EFFECTIVE TAX RATE OF
JUST OVER 20%.
THEY DONATED NEARLY $60,000 TO
CHARITY.
STILL TO COME ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
WHAT'S BEHIND THE LATEST STOCK
MARKET DROP;
HUMANITARIAN CRISES IN SYRIA,
SOUTH SUDAN, AND ELSEWHERE;
THE BIPARTISAN BACKLASH AGAINST
COMMON CORE SCHOOL STANDARDS;
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS;
PLUS, HOW POETRY AND SONG WERE
INSTRUMENTAL TO THE CIVIL RIGHT.
WALL STREET EXTENDED ITS DECLINE
TODAY FOLLOWING A MAJOR SELL-OFF
THURSDAY THAT INCLUDED THE
SINGLE WORST DAY FOR THE NASDAQ
SINCE 2011.
THE TECH-HEAVY INDEX HAS DROPPED
MORE THAN 8% FROM THE HIGH IT
REACHED AFTER THE DOT-COM BUST
OF 2000.
TODAY, THE NASDAQ FELL 54 POINTS
TO CLOSE BELOW 4,000 FOR ONLY
THE SECOND TIME THIS YEAR.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 143 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,026.
AND THE S&P WAS DOWN 17 AT
1,815.
THERE ARE QUESTIONS NOW ABOUT
WHETHER THE LONG MARKET RALLY
MAY HAVE HIT A WALL.
HARI SREENIVASAN PICKS UP ON
THAT AND THE SPECIFIC CONCERNS
IN TECH AND BIOTECH.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR THAT, I AM
JOINED BY HUGH JOHNSON, A MARKET
ANALYST WHO RUNS HIS OWN
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FIRM.
FIRST OFF, WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH
THESE TECH STOCKS AND MAYBE MORE
SPECIFICALLY THE BIOTECH ONES?
>> WELL, IF YOU TAKE A LOOK AT
MARKET HISTORY, YOU KNOW, WHAT
WE'VE HAD MORE RECENTLY, AS JUDY
SUGGESTED, IS RIGHT ON, AND THAT
IS WE'VE GONE A LONG PERIOD --
YOU REMEMBER 2013, THE MARKET UP
30%, NOBODY EXPECTED THAT.
THAT'S A LONG TIME FOR THE
MARKET TO BE GOING UP WITHOUT AN
ADJUSTMENT OR CORRECTION.
SO I THINK THIS ALL A STARTS
WITH THE BASIC SORT OF
COMMON-SENSE PERCEPTION THAT
THIS HAS GOT TO BE AT LEAST A
CORRECTION IN AN ONGOING BULL
MARKET.
NOW, IT'S A LITTLE BIT MORE THAN
THAT BECAUSE, YOU KNOW, IF YOU
HAVE STOCKS GOING UP A STRAIGHT
LINE, BASICALLY, AS THEY DID IN
2013, THEY'RE GOING TO REACH
LEVELS THAT ARE ARGUABLY VERY
OVERVALUED AND I THINK THIS
STARTS REALLY AS A VALUATION
ISSUE.
REALLY, THE PRICES OF STOCKS GOT
THE LEVELS THAT DID NOT REFLECT
UNDERLYING FUNDAMENTALS,
REFLECTED UNREALISTIC GROWTH
RATES AND STARTED TO SELL.
WHEN SOME STOCKS START TO GO
DOWN, IT TENDS TO BE SORT OF
CONTAGIOUS.
IT SPREADS.
IT MAKES EVERYBODY WORRIED WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE A REPEAT OF 2000
OR MAYBE 2008, WHICH IS FRESH IN
THE MINDS OF JUST ABOUT EVERY
INVESTOR.
SO IT REALLY STARTS WITH
VALUATION.
VALUATION IS REALLY, I THINK,
THE NUMBER ONE ISSUE.
>> SO WERE THE TECH STOCKS OR
BIOTECH MORE VOLATILE IN THESE
VALUATIONS?
>> YEAH, THEY'RE REALLY MORE
VOLATILE BECAUSE THE
EXPECTATION, PARTICULARLY WHEN
YOU LOOK AT THE INTERNET STOCKS,
NEW TECHNOLOGY, SOCIAL MEDIA
STOCKS, YOU CAN ALSO LOOK AT THE
BIOTECH STOCKS, THEY'VE REACHED
LEVELS THAT REFLECTED GROWTH
RATES WHICH ARE MUCH HIGHER THAN
THE WIDER SPRED OR BROADER
MARKET, REACHED LEVELS THAT IN
MY JUDGMENT REFLECTED
UNREALISTIC PROSPECTS FOR THEIR
FUNDAMENTALS.
AT THE SAME TIME THAT HAPPENED,
THOSE COMPANIES THEMSELVES TOLD
US THE KIND OF PROSPECTS THAT
WALL STREET WITH EXPECTED IS NOT
IN THE CARDS AND THAT KIND OF
TOUCHED IT OFF.
IT REALLY WAS THOSE STOCKS IN
PARTICULAR THAT REACHED LEVELS.
IT WAS NOT QUITE SO WIDESPREAD
AND, AS A RESULT OF THAT, YOU
SEE THE CLIMBING PRIMARILY
TECHNOLOGY, PRIMARILY
BIOTECHNOLOGY AND A FEW OTHER
SECTORS, IT SPREAD A LITTLE BUT
NOT A LOT.
THE SAFER SECTORS WHERE THERE'S
NOT AN EARNINGS PROBLEM --
UTILITIES, TELECOMMUNICATIONS,
STAPLES, THINGS LIKE FOOD
STOCKS, HOUSEHOLD PRODUCT
STOCKS -- THEY DIDN'T HAVE
ANYWHERE NEAR THE DECLINE.
IT WAS THE SO-CALLED
HIGH-FLYERS.
>> Sreenivasan: IS IT
CORRECTION OR THE BEGINNING OF A
BEAR?
>> IT'S PROBABLY ONLY A
CORRECTION.
FOR YOU THE MAKE THE CASE IT'S
THE START OF A BEAR MARKET, YOU
HAVE TO MAKE A T CASE IT'S A
DECLINE IN STOCKS TO BE
ACCOMPANIED BY A RECESSION.
I THINK IT'S HARD TO MAKE A CASE
THAT WE HAVE A RECESSION IN THE
CARDS FOR 2014-2015.
THE CONSENSUS FORECAST FOR THE
ECONOMY LIKE 2006, 2007, GOOD
GROWTH IN 2014, EVEN STRONGER IN
2015, WHEN WE TAKE A LOOK AT
THINGS THAT TELL US WHERE THINGS
ARE GOING, INDEX OF LEADING
ECONOMIC INDICATORS, THOSE
INDICATORS US THEY CONTINUE
TO GO UP, CONTINUE TO TELL US
THAT THE ECONOMY IS GOING TO
EXPAND THROUGH 2014 AND '15.
SO BASED ON THOSE TEA LEAVES,
YOU HAVE TO COME TO THE
CONCLUSION WE DON'T KNOW FOR
SURE BUT A CONCLUSION THAT THIS
IS PROBABLY A CORRECTION AND
FAIRLY SEVERE ONE, ONE THAT'S
GOING TO TEST US IN AN ONGOING
BULL MARKET, NOT THE START OF A
BEAR MARKET THAT WILL BE
ACCOMPANIED BY A RECESSION.
>> Sreenivasan: HUGH JOHNSON.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO
THOSE WHOSE LIVES HAVE BEEN
UPENDED BY WAR.
IN SYRIA, MORE THAN 6.5 MILLION
ARE DISPLACED INSIDE THE
COUNTRY, MANY WITHOUT ACCESS TO
AID, AND NEARLY TWO MILLION MORE
HAVE FLED TO NEIGHBORING
COUNTRIES.
IN CENTRAL AFRICA, NEW
HUMANITARIAN CRISES ARE EMERGING
IN SOUTH SUDAN AND THE CENTRAL
AFRICAN REPUBLIC.
ALL OF THIS AS AID GROUPS
STRUGGLE TO DEAL WITH HARSH AND
DEADLY CONDITIONS ON THE GROUND,
AS WELL AS A MASSIVE SHORTFALL
IN FINANCES.
EARLIER THIS AFTERNOON, I SPOKE
TO ANTONIO GUTERRES, THE FORMER
PRIME MINISTER OF PORTUGAL AND
THE CURRENT UNITED NATIONS HIGH
COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES, ABOUT
SOME OF THE MOST PRESSING ISSUES
HIS ORGANIZATION FACES.
U.N. HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR
REFUGEES, ANTONIO GUTERRES,
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> PLEASURE TO BE HERE.
TELL US WHAT THE MAIN
CHALLENGE IN SYRIA IS THERE NOW.
>> IT'S A NEVER-ENDING CONFLICT.
WE HAVE THE LARGEST DISPLACEMENT
IN THE WORLD, 6.5 MILLION PEOPLE
DISPLACED INSIDE THE COUNTRY,
MORE THAN 2.6 MILLION REFUGEES
COMING INTO THE NEIGHBORING
COUNTRIES.
AND AS YOU CAN IMAGINE, IT'S NOT
ONLY A TERRIBLE TRAGEDY FOR THE
SYRIANS, IT'S BECOMING AN
ENORMOUS THREAT FOR THE
STABILITY OF THE REGION AND A
GLOBAL THREAT TO PEACE AND
SECURITY.
>> Reporter: AND WHAT IS YOUR
AGENCY ABLE TO DO RIGHT NOW FOR
THESE REFUGEES?
>> WHAT WE'RE DOING IS
ESSENTIALLY MOBILIZING OUR
PARTNERS, 125 ORGANIZATIONS
TOGETHER WITH THE GOVERNMENTS,
YOU KNOW, TO TRY TO GIVE
SHELTER, PROTECTION, WATER, FOOD
AND TO PUT AS MANY CHILDREN IN
SCHOOL AS POSSIBLE, BUT ONLY
ONE-THIRD OF THE REFUGEE
CHILDREN ARE AT SCHOOLS, AND TO
PROVIDE HEALTHCARE TO THESE
PEOPLE, KNOWING THAT WHATEVER WE
DO IS NOT ENOUGH, KNOWING THAT
THESE PEOPLE HAVE SUFFERED SO
MUCH THAT THEY DESERVE FROM THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY A MUCH
STRONGER SOLIDARITY, A MUCH
STRONGER PROOF THAT WE
UNDERSTAND.
>> Woodruff: WHAT MORE DO YOU
NEED NOW FOR THE SYRIAN
REFUGEES?
>> WE NEED MORE SUPPORT FROM
HUMANITARY ORGANIZATIONS BUT
ALSO MASSIVE SUPPORT TO THE HOST
COUNTRIES.
COUNTRIES LIKE LEBANON,
ONE-FORTH OF ITS POPULATION.
THE IMPACT OF THE ECONOMY AND
SOCIETY AND EDUCATIONAL SYSTEMS
IS HUGE.
THE DESTABILIZING IMPACT IN
RELATION TO THE POLITICAL LIFE
OF THE COUNTRY IS ALSO HUGE.
SO MASSIVE INTERNATIONAL
SOLIDARITY IS NEEDED, AND LET'S
BE HONEST, THE WORLD HAS NOT
BEEN ABLE TO PROVIDE TO THESE
GENEROUS HOST COUNTRIES THE KIND
OF SUPPORT THEY DESERVE AND THEY
BADLY NEED AT THE PRESENT
MOMENT.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS A U.N.
RESOLUTION PASSED EARLIER THIS
YEAR TO ALLOW MORE AID INTO
SYRIA.
HAS THAT MADE A DIFFERENCE?
>> SOME, BUT STILL FAR FROM
BEING ABLE TO PROVIDE ENOUGH
ASSISTANCE TO THE PEOPLE THAT
EITHER HAVE BEEN DISPLACED BY
THE CONFLICT, AND MANY OF THEM
LIVING OUTSIDE EVEN WORSE THAN
THE REFUGEES THEMSELVES BECAUSE
NOT ONLY DO THEY NOT SEE THEIR
NEEDS BEING ADDRESSED, BUT THEIR
INSECURITY IS ENORMOUS.
WE HAVE DISPLACED PEOPLE INSIDE
SYRIA THAT HAVE MOVED SIX, SEVEN
TIMES, AND THE WAR IS COMING
OFFCOMINGAFTER THEM.
>> Woodruff: SYRIA IS BAD
ENOUGH BUT ALSO CRISES ON THE
AFRICAN CONTINENT.
THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, A
CRISIS UNFOLDING WHERE YOU HAVE
CHRISTIAN MILITIA FORCES
ATTACKING MUSLIM CIVILIANS
TRYING TO LEAVE.
WHAT IS THE LATEST INFORMATION
YOU HAVE FROM THERE?
>> IT'S EXACTLY THAT.
THERE WAS NEVER A RELIGIOUS
PROBLEM IN THE SOUTH AFRICA
REPUBLIC.
IT WAS CREATED BY THOSE WHO
TRIED TO MANIPULATE THE FEELINGS
OF THE PEOPLE AND THE FEARS OF
THE PEOPLE, PUTTING CHRISTIANS
AGAINST MUSLIMS AND MUSLIMS
AGAINST CHRISTIANS AND IT IS
HORRIBLE.
TODAY YOU'RE WITNESSING THE RISK
OF A RELIGIOUS CONFLICT OF THE
MUSLIMS FROM THE WESTERN PART OF
THE COUNTRY AND THE EASTERN PART
OF THE COUNTRY, A MAJORITY
MUSLIMS, HAS BEEN APANNEDDED BY
THE STATE.
A TERRIBLE HUMANITARIAN
SITUATION, IN A COUNTRY WHERE
THE STATE PRACTICALLY
DISAPPEARED AND IS ESSENTIAL TO
INCREASE SECURITY, INCREASING
QUICKLY THE NUMBER OF MILITARY
POLICE THAT ARE THERE FROM THE
AFRICAN UNION WAITING FOR THE
U.N. FORCE TO COME, AND, AT THE
SAME TIME, HELPING THE
REPUBLICANS THEMSELVES TO HAVE A
MINIMUM OF POLICE AND SYSTEM AND
HELP TO ALLOW FOR ALL THE
CRIMINALS AROUND TO BE
PROSECUTED, CONDEMNED IF THAT IS
THE KAY AND JAILED AND NOT
CREATING ANARCHY AND CHAOS
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
>> CAN MONEY MAKE A DIFFERENCE?
IT'S MORE THAN MONEY.
IT'S A STRONG POLITICAL
COMMITMENT TO INCREASE SECURITY
AND THAT REQUIRES MORE FORCES ON
THE GROUND.
WITHOUT MORE FORCES ON THE
GROUND, IT WILL BE IMPOSSIBLE TO
PRESENT THE KIND OF GENERALIZED
VIOLENCE WE ARE WITNESSING IN
THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC.
>> Woodruff: ANOTHER PART OF
THE AFRICAN CONTENT, SOUTH
SUDAN.
I WAS LOOKING TODAY.
MORE THAN 280,000 REFUGEES
CROSSING THE BORDER WITH UGANDA,
KENYA AND ETHIOPIA JUST SINCE
SEPTEMBER.
THIS IS A CRISIS AFFECTING A
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES.
>> YES, AND IT BREAKS OUR
HEARTS.
I WAS RECENTLY IN A SMALL PLACE
IN SOUTH SUDAN --
>> Woodruff: YOU JUST CAME
BACK.
>> -- CONTROLLED BY THE
OPPOSITION.
AND ALL OF A SUDDEN, TWO YOUNG
MEN CAME TO SEE ME AND SAID,
WHERE WERE YOU IN 2005 IN THE
REFUGEE CAMP IN UGANDA IS THIS
AND AT THAT TIME WAS WHEN THE
AGREEMENT WAS SIGNED AND WE WERE
ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT GOING BACK,
AND THEY CAME BACK TO SOUTH
SUDAN AND ALL OF A SUDDEN ARE
DISPLACED AGAIN.
WE WERE FULL OF HOPE, FULL OF
JOY TO GO BACK HOME, WANTING TO
REBUILD THE COUNTRY AND, NOW,
THE TRUTH IS THE POLITICAL
LEADERSHIP OF THE COUNTRY IS IN
OPPOSITION, CREATED A SITUATION
WHERE ALL THESE PEOPLE ARE IN A
DRAMATIC HUMANITARIAN SITUATION
WITH HUNGER, WITH ALL BASIC
NEEDS NOT BEING TAKEN CARE OF,
AND BECAUSE OF THE VIOLENCE,
FORCED TO FLEE AGAIN INTO
NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES.
>> WHA>> Woodruff: WHAT IS YOUR
MESSAGE FOR AMERICANS AND OTHERS
WHO ARE LISTENING WHO THINK I
WOULD LIKE TO HELP.
THIS IS SUCH A BIG PROBLEM, WHAT
CAN I DO?
AND DOES IT MAKE A DIFFERENCE?
>> AMERICANS HAVE BEEN EXTREMELY
INVOLVED IN SOUTH SUDAN.
MANY AMERICAN VOLUNTEERS HAVE
BEEN WORKING THERE SUPPORTING
THE PEOPLE AND THAT IS, OF
COURSE, SOMETHING WE SHOULD
PRAISE.
SUPPORT, FINANCIAL SUPPORT,
HUMANITARIAN AID IN SUDAN AND IN
NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES, BUT
POLITICAL COMMITMENT TO FORCE
THE PARTIES TO MAKE PEACE.
I THINK THE COUNTRIES OF THE
REGION AND THOSE THAT HAVE
INVESTED SO MUCH, LIKE THE U.S.,
IN SOUTH SUDAN NEED TO DO
EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO MAKE SURE
THAT THIS COMPLETELY STUPID
WAR -- THERE ARE NO DIFFERENT
PROGRAMS, JUST A STRUGGLE FOR
POWER AND THE CONTROL OF
RESOURCES, THAT THIS COMPLETELY
STUPID WAR IS ENDED.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU LOOK FOR
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE COMMISSION,
TO THE REFUGEE WORK YOU'RE
DOING?
>> OF COURSE, WE BADLY NEED
SUPPORT.
ALL OUR AFRICAN OPERATIONS ARE
DRAMATICALLY UNDERFUNDED BECAUSE
THE ATTENTIONS ARE VERY MUCH ON
THE SYRIAN CRISIS.
BUT IT'S SUPPORT TO ALL U.N.
AGENCIES WORKING BOTH INSIDE
SOUTH SUDAN AND IN THE COUNTRIES
AROUND.
>> Woodruff: A MASSIVE
UNDERTAKING AND WE THANK YOU
VERY MUCH FOR TALKING ABOUT IT
WITH US.
U.N. COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES,
ANTONIO GUTERRES.
>> THANK YOU.
THIS MONTH OKLAHOMA BECAME THE
LATEST STATE TO TAKE A BIG STEP
TOWARD REPEALING THE COMMON CORE
EDUCATION STANDARDS.
THE OKLAHOMA STATE SENATE PASSED
A BILL JUST LAST WEEK TO DO SO.
THIS, AS MORE THAN A DOZEN OTHER
STATES ARE CONSIDERING REPEAL,
AND STILL OTHERS ARE REVIEWING
HOW THEY USE THE STANDARDS WHEN
IT COMES TO TEACHING AND
TESTING.
IT'S A BIG SHIFT FROM THE BROAD,
AND OFTEN BIPARTISAN SUPPORT IT
SEEMED TO HAVE JUST A FEW YEARS
AGO.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: COMMON CORE WAS
INITIATED IN 2009 BY THE
NATIONS' GOVERNORS, SEEKING
NATIONAL STANDARDS FOR MATH AND
ENGLISH LITERACY.
U.S. SECRETARY OF EDUCATION ARNE
DUNCAN SUPPORTED THE MOVE,
SPENDING $350 MILLION TO DEVELOP
COMMON CORE TESTS.
>> I BELIEVE THIS NEW GENERATION
OF ASSESSMENT IS AN ABSOLUTE
GAME-CHANGER FOR AMERICAN
EDUCATION.
>> Brown: IN RELATIVELY SHORT
ORDER, NEARLY EVERY STATE, PLUS
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, AGREED
TO CREATE CURRICULA BASED ON THE
COMMON CORE GUIDELINES.
BUT MORE RECENTLY, A BACKLASH
HAS BEGUN.
LAST MONTH, INDIANA BECAME THE
FIRST STATE TO DROP THE COMMON
CORE STANDARDS IT HAD ALREADY
ADOPTED.
GOVERNOR MIKE PENCE EXPLAINED
THE MOVE IN AN INDIANAPOLIS
RADIO INTERVIEW.
>> HOOSIERS SHOULD BE VERY PROUD
AND TAKE EVERY OPPORTUNITY TO BE
ENGAGED IN THE FACT THAT WE'RE
THE FIRST STATE IN THE COUNTRY
THAT'S REALLY GOING BACK TO THE
PRINCIPLE THAT EDUCATION IS A
STATE/LOCAL FUNCTION.
>> Brown: NOW, OKLAHOMA AND
OTHER STATES ARE MOVING TO
FOLLOW INDIANA'S LEAD.
THE CRITICISM INITIALLY STEMMED
FROM REPUBLICANS LEERY OF
FEDERAL INVOLVEMENT WITH SOME
LABELING THE PROGRAM "OBAMA-
CORE".
PENNSYLVANIA CONGRESSMAN JOHN
KLINE CHAIRS THE HOUSE EDUCATION
COMMITTEE.
>> THAT'S THE ULTIMATE FEAR--
THAT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DOES
GET IN THE CURRICULUM BUSINESS
AND TELLS THE STATES WHAT
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO TEACH.
>> Brown: THERE'S BEEN CRITICISM
ON THE LEFT AS WELL,
PARTICULARLY OVER TESTING
REQUIREMENTS.
NEW YORK'S DEMOCRATIC GOVERNOR
ANDREW CUOMO HAS SAID EXECUTION
OF THE STANDARDS WAS "FLAWED".
>> Brown: THE PROGRAM STILL HAS
ITS CHAMPIONS, THOUGH.
ONE IS THE REPUBLICAN FORMER
FLORIDA GOVERNOR, JEB BUSH.
LAST SUNDAY ON FOX NEWS, HE MADE
A PUSH FOR COMMON CORE.
>> IF YOU DON'T HAVE HIGH
EXPECTATIONS, HIGH STANDARDS,
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO GO ANYWHERE.
THE IDEA THAT IT'S A RA
PROGRAM IS BASED... IS JUST NOT
TRUE.
IT'S JUST NOT.
IT WAS VOLUNTARILY CREATED BY
GOVERNORS.
>> Brown: MEANWHILE, THE REPEAL
MOVE IS GATHERING MOMENTUM.
IT'S EXPECTED TO CLEAR THE
OKLAHOMA LEGISLATURE IN THE NEXT
FEW WEEKS.
AND WE GO TO OKLAHOMA NOW TO
EXPLORE ALL OF THIS.
WE'RE JOINED BY TWO STATE
REPRESENTATIVES, REPUBLICAN
JASON NELSON IS CO-AUTHOR OF
BILL TO REPEAL THE STANDARDS.
DEMOCRAT EMILY VIRGIN IS OPPOSED
TO SUCH REPEAL.
REPRESENTATIVE NELSON, WHY IS
SOMETHING THAT LOOKED GOOD IN
2010 NO LONG INTEREST RIGHT WAY
TO GO?
>> WELL, WHAT I THINK MOST
LEGISLATORS IN OKLAHOMA HAVE
LOOKED FOR IN 2010 WAS HIGHER
STANDARDS.
I THINK A LOT OF STATES STRUGGLE
WITH SETTING HIGH STANDARDS AND
MAINTAINING THEM, NOT WATERING
THEM DOWN OVER TIME, AND I THINK
THE HOPE IN 2010 WAS THAT COMMON
CORE WOULD DO THAT FOR US AND,
AS IT TURNS OUT, THE FORDHAM
INSTITUTE LOOKED AT AND COMPARED
THE STATE'S STANDARDS AGAINST
COMMON CORE AND WE FOUND OUT WE
DIDN'T GAIN ANYTHING BUT DID
SEEK CONTROL TO AN OUTSIDE
ENTITY.
SO THE BILL SAYS THE STATE HAS
TO MAINTAIN A CONTROL OVER ITS
STANDARDS, THAT WE'RE SEEKING
NOW, BUT WE INCLUDE HIGHER ED IN
DEVELOPING NEW STANDARDS, SO THE
PUBLIC AND LEGISLATORS VOTING ON
THE BILL HAVE CONFIDENCE THE
STANDARDS WILL BE HIGHER THAN
WHAT WE'VE HAD IN THE PAST.
>> Brown: REPRESENTATIVE
VIRGIN, YOU STILL COUNTR SUPPORE
COMMON CORE AS VOTED IN EARLIER.
WHY?
AND WHY DO YOU THINK THERE IS
THIS OPPOSITION NOW?
>> I DO SUPPORT THE COMMON CORE
AS IT WAS VOTED IN WITH
BIPARTISAN SUPPORT IN 2010.
I THINK THE OPPOSITION IS AGE
MAINL COMING FROM A -- MAINLY
COMING FROM A LOT OF FRINGE
GROUPS.
UNFORTUNATELY THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY IN OKLAHOMA IS GIVING IN
TO THOSE GROUPS.
WHEN WE HAVE SCHOOL DISTRICTS
ACROSS THE STATE LIKE MINE IN
NORMAN THAT HAVE SPEND THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS AND SPENT A LOT ON
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
IMPLEMENTING THESE STANDARDS
OVER THE LAST THREE YEARS AND
THIS BILL WOULD ESSENTIALLY PULL
THE RUG OUT FROM OUR TEACHERS
AND ADMINISTRATORS.
THE PROBLEM WITH THIS BILL RIGHT
NOW IS THAT WE HAVE A VERY SHORT
PERIOD OF TIME TO COME UP WITH A
COMPLETELY NEW SET OF STANDARDS,
AND I DON'T THINK THAT'S ENOUGH
TIME.
I DON'T THINK IT'S FAIR TO THE
TEACHERS, SCHOOL DISTRICTS AND
STUDENTS THAT HAVE SPENT MUCH
TIME AND HARD WORK IMPLEMENTING
THESE HIGH STANDARDS.
>> Brown: JASON NELSON, THIS
IS SOMETHING WE'VE HEARD ACROSS
THE COUNTRY IS PART OF THE
BACKLASH IS POLITICAL, THAT'S
WHAT HAPPENED IS TURNED AGAINST
COMMON CORE THAT WAS BIPARTISAN
AT ONE POINT.
>> WELL, TO SAY EDUCATION POLICY
IS A POLITICAL ISSUE IS AN
UNDERSTATEMENT OF THE YEAR,
CERTAINLY IN OKLAHOMA.
THE REALITY IS THE PEOPLE IN
OKLAHOMA WANT THEIR KIDS TO GET
A GREAT EDUCATION.
COMMON CORE PROMISED THAT AND,
QUITE FRANKLY, DIDN'T DELIVER.
SO THE STATE IS LEFT TO LOOK TO
ANOTHER SOLUTION, WE BELIEVE
INCLUDING HIGHER ED AND CAREER
TECH IN THAT PROCESS, DOESN'T
JUST GIVE US A GOOD SET OF
STANDARDS BUT STANDARDS THAT
EXCEED THOSE THAT HAVE BEEN
OFFERED BY THE COMMON CORE.
SO, YOU KNOW, WHAT WAS A GOOD
IDEA LAST YEAR WILL BE A GOOD
IDEA NEXT YEAR IN THE STANDARDS
AND TO THE EXTENT SCHOOL
DISTRICTS HAVE INITIATED AND
IMPLEMENTED GOOD PRACTICES AND
STANDARDS IN LINE WITH THE
COMMON CORE, WE WANT THEM TO BE
ABLE TO CONTINUE THAT, BUT TO
THE EXTENT WE'VE IMPOSED ON OUR
LOCAL SCHOOL BOARDS AND SCHOOL
DISTRICTS AND EDUCATORS THINGS
THAT AREN'T PRODUCTIVE IN OUR
CLASSROOMS AND BENEFICIAL TO
KIDS, WE DON'T WANT TO FORCE
THEM TO CONTINUE TO DO THAT.
>> YOU'RE REJECTING THE NOTION
IT'S FRINGE GROUPS OR OUTSIDE
GROUPS REALLY PUSHING THE AGENDA
HERE?
>> WELL, THERE'S GROUPS -- WHAT
I WOULD SAY WOULD BE FROM THE
RIGHT AND LEFT.
THERE'S EDUCATORS THAT I KNOW
LIKE THE COMMON CORE AND THERE
ARE EDUCATORS I KNOW THAT DON'T
LIKE THE COMMON CORE.
WHAT THE BILL SEEKS TO DO IS PUT
BACK INTO THE HANDS OF THE STATE
BOARD OF EDUCATION THE
RESPONSIBILITY AND AUTHORITY OF
DEVELOPING THE STANDARDS AND,
REALLY, REVERSING THE COURSE THE
LEGISLATURE TOOK IN 2010 WHEN WE
SPECIFIED A VERY SPECIFIC SET OF
STANDARDS.
>> Brown: EMILY VIRGIN, TO BE
CLEAR AND FAIR, CRITICISM DOES
COME FROM THE LEFT, COMES FROM
TEACHERS UNIONS AND VARIOUS
SOURCES HERE.
>> ABSOLUTELY, IT DOES COME FROM
BOTH SIDES.
MAINLY IN OKLAHOMA THE
OPPOSITION HAS COME FROM THE
RIGHT, BUT I HAVE HEARD SOME
FROM THE LEFT, ALSO.
BUT I THINK THAT'S A SIGN OF A
GOOD SET OF CHALLENGING
STANDARDS IS THAT WE'RE SEEING
SOME OPPOSITION FROM BOTH SIDES.
WE STILL HAVEN'T HEARD ANYTHING
CONCRETE AS TO WHAT IS WRONG
WITH THESE STANDARDS, AND I HAVE
NEVER SEEN ANY TYPE OF EVIDENCE
THAT SAYS THAT THEY'RE NOT
WORKING.
WE KNOW THAT WE CAN'T GO BACK TO
WHAT WE WERE DOING BEFORE
BECAUSE THAT WASN'T WORKING, AND
THIS WAS PUT TOGETHER BY A GROUP
OF GOVERNORS AND EDUCATORS WHO
ARE INVOLVED IN THE PROCESS, AND
THESE ARE HIGHER STANDARDS THAT
WILL MAKE SURE THAT STUDENTS IN
OKLAHOMA MEASURE UP TO THE REST
OF THE COUNTRY AND THAT THEY
DON'T HAVE TO RELY ON REMEDIAL
COURSES WHEN THEY ENTER COLLEGE.
>> Brown: JASON NELSON, THAT'S
ONE OF THE QUESTIONS HERE.
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT HIGH
STANDARDS.
COMMON CORE TALKS ABOUT HIGH
ONE OF THE THINGS YOU HEAR IS
STANDARDS.
THIS IS JUST KIND OF A
ONE OF THE THINGS YOU HEAR IS
REBRANDING.
THIS IS JUST KIND OF A
OKAY, DON'T CALL IT COMMON CORE,
REBRANDING.
NOW IT'S GOING TO BE OKLAHOMA
OKAY, DON'T CALL IT COMMON CORE,
COMMON CORE.
NOW IT'S GOING TO BE OKLAHOMA
>> IN FACT, THAT'S ALREADY
COMMON CORE.
HAPPENED.
>> IN FACT, THAT'S ALREADY
I THINK IT WAS LAST YEAR THE
HAPPENED.
GOVERNOR BY EXECUTIVE ORDER SAID
I THINK IT WAS LAST YEAR THE
THAT THE STANDARDS WOULD BE
GOVERNOR BY EXECUTIVE ORDER SAID
REFERRED TO AS OKLAHOMA ACADEMIC
THAT THE STANDARDS WOULD BE
STANDARDS AND, AGAIN, IF A SET
REFERRED TO AS OKLAHOMA ACADEMIC
OF STANDARDS AND THE PRACTICE OF
STANDARDS AND, AGAIN, IF A SET
TEACHING IS A GOOD IDEA TODAY,
OF STANDARDS AND THE PRACTICE OF
IT WILL BE A GOOD IDEA TOMORROW
TEACHING IS A GOOD IDEA TODAY,
AND WE WOULD WANT TEACHERS TO
IT WILL BE A GOOD IDEA TOMORROW
CONTINUE TO DO THAT, BUT WE WANT
AND WE WOULD WANT TEACHERS TO
EDUCATORS AND PARENTS
CONTINUE TO DO THAT, BUT WE WANT
BUSINESS COMMUNITY AND IN OUR
EDUCATORS AND PARENTS
CAREER TECH SYSTEM TO BE ABLE TO
BUSINESS COMMUNITY AND IN OUR
DEVELOP THOSE STANDARDS AND THAT
CAREER TECH SYSTEM TO BE ABLE TO
WAS NOT THE CASE TOTALLY LAST
DEVELOP THOSE STANDARDS AND THAT
TIME.
WAS NOT THE CASE TOTALLY LAST
THERE WAS A NATIONAL TESTING
TIME.
CONSORTIUM OKLAHOMA WAS A PART
THERE WAS A NATIONAL TESTING
OF AND COMMON CORE WAS DEVELOPED
CONSORTIUM OKLAHOMA WAS A PART
BY A GROUP FROM OUTSIDE THE
OF AND COMMON CORE WAS DEVELOPED
STATE.
BY A GROUP FROM OUTSIDE THE
I THINK OKLAHOMANS ARE CAPABLE
STATE.
OF DEVELOPING STANDARDS WHERE
I THINK OKLAHOMANS ARE CAPABLE
EDUCATORS, PARENTS, ANYBODY
OF DEVELOPING STANDARDS WHERE
WHO'S INTERESTED CAN GOAT
EDUCATORS, PARENTS, ANYBODY
INVOLVED AND MAKE SURE THE
WHO'S INTERESTED CAN GOAT
STANDARDS REPRESENT THE
INVOLVED AND MAKE SURE THE
ASPIRATIONS OF OKLAHOMA
STANDARDS REPRESENT THE
FAMILIES, BUSINESSES AND
ASPIRATIONS OF OKLAHOMA
EDUCATORS.
FAMILIES, BUSINESSES AND
>> Brown: IF T  DOWN,
EDUCATORS.
EMILY VIRGIN, WHAT DO YOU THINK
>> Brown: IF T  DOWN,
WILL BE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR
EMILY VIRGIN, WHAT DO YOU THINK
STUDENTS IN OKLAHOMA?
WILL BE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR
BECAUSE PART OF THE IMPETUS OF
STUDENTS IN OKLAHOMA?
THIS, OF COURSE, WAS TO MAKE
BECAUSE PART OF THE IMPETUS OF
SURE SOME STATES DON'T FALL
THIS, OF COURSE, WAS TO MAKE
BEHIND.
SURE SOME STATES DON'T FALL
>> CORRECT, AND STUDENTS IN
BEHIND.
OKLAHOMA WILL NOT BE ABLE TO BE
>> CORRECT, AND STUDENTS IN
MEASURED WITH THE REST OF THE
OKLAHOMA WILL NOT BE ABLE TO BE
COUNTRY THAT HAVE ADOPTED THESE
MEASURED WITH THE REST OF THE
STANDARDS.
COUNTRY THAT HAVE ADOPTED THESE
THAT WAS ONE OF THE BIG BONUSES
STANDARDS.
OF THE COMMON CORE.
THAT WAS ONE OF THE BIG BONUSES
WE'VE GOT STANDARDS WILL BE THE
OF THE COMMON CORE.
SAME ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
WE'VE GOT STANDARDS WILL BE THE
WE WOULD BE ABLE TO MEASURE
SAME ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
OURSELVES AGAINST OTHER STATES
WE WOULD BE ABLE TO MEASURE
AND AGAINST STUDENTS IN OTHER
OURSELVES AGAINST OTHER STATES
STATES AND WE WON'T BE ABLE TO
AND AGAINST STUDENTS IN OTHER
DO THAT IF WE PULL OUT OF THE
STATES AND WE WON'T BE ABLE TO
COMMON CORE.
DO THAT IF WE PULL OUT OF THE
OKLAHOMA WILL ALSO HAVE A REALLY
COMMON CORE.
HARD TIME IF WE ADOPT REALLY
OKLAHOMA WILL ALSO HAVE A REALLY
DIFFERENT FROM COMMON CORE,
HARD TIME IF WE ADOPT REALLY
WE'LL HAVE A HARD TIME FINDING
DIFFERENT FROM COMMON CORE,
TEXTBOOKS, CURRICULUM AND
WE'LL HAVE A HARD TIME FINDING
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR OUR
TEXTBOOKS, CURRICULUM AND
TEACHERS WHO HAVE ALREADY
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR OUR
IMPLEMENTED THIS IN THEIR
TEACHERS WHO HAVE ALREADY
CLASSROOMS.
IMPLEMENTED THIS IN THEIR
>> Brown: BRIEFLY, ARE YOU
CLASSROOMS.
EXPECTING IT TO BE REPEALED, IN
>> Brown: BRIEFLY, ARE YOU
FACT?
EXPECTING IT TO BE REPEALED, IN
>> THAT'S YET TO BE DETERMINED.
FACT?
WE PASSED A BILL IN THE HOUSE
>> THAT'S YET TO BE DETERMINED.
AND THEN IT WENT TO THE SENATE
WE PASSED A BILL IN THE HOUSE
AND BECAME PRETTY DIFFERENT THAN
AND THEN IT WENT TO THE SENATE
WHAT WE PASSED IN THE HOUSE, AND
AND BECAME PRETTY DIFFERENT THAN
WE'RE EXPECTING THAT TO GO TO
WHAT WE PASSED IN THE HOUSE, AND
CONFERENCE COMMITTEE, SO WE MAY
WE'RE EXPECTING THAT TO GO TO
HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL THE LAST FEW
CONFERENCE COMMITTEE, SO WE MAY
WEEKS OF SESSION AND I THINK
HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL THE LAST FEW
THAT'S JUST NOT FAIR TO OUR
WEEKS OF SESSION AND I THINK
STUDENTS AND EDUCATORS WHO ARE
THAT'S JUST NOT FAIR TO OUR
RELYING ON A CONSISTENT SET OF
STUDENTS AND EDUCATORS WHO ARE
STANDARDS.
RELYING ON A CONSISTENT SET OF
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, WE'LL
STANDARDS.
WATCH WHAT HAPPENS IN YOUR STATE
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, WE'LL
AND OTHERS, REPRESENTATIVES
WATCH WHAT HAPPENS IN YOUR STATE
JASON NELSON AND EMILY VIRGIN OF
AND OTHERS, REPRESENTATIVES
OKLAHOMA, THANKS SO MUCH.
JASON NELSON AND EMILY VIRGIN OF
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS-- THAT'S
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME.
SO WE'RE GOING TO TALK ABOUT
COMMON CORE IN A MINUTE, BUT,
MARK, I WANT TO START WITH WHAT
EVERYBODY'S BEEN TALKING ABOUT
TODAY AND THAT IS KATHLEEN
SEBELIUS OUT AS SECRETARY OF
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES AFTER
THE BIG BROUHAHA OVER HEALTHCARE
REFORM.
WHAT'S HER LEGACY?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, LET ME
ADMIT UP FRONT, KATHLEEN
SEBELIUS HAS BEEN A PERSONAL
FRIEND FOR 46 YEARS, I'VE KNOWN
HER.
I LIKE HER.
I HAVE NOT TALKED TO HER ABOUT
THIS, BUT PART OF HER LEGACY, IN
A STRANGE WAY, IS A WASHINGTON
STORY NOBODY REALLY TALKS ABOUT
AND THAT IS -- BOB GATES DID IN
HIS BOOK -- AND THAT IS EACH
SUCCEEDING WHITE HOUSE BRINGS
MORE AND MORE POWER TO THE WHITE
HOUSE.
CABINET OFFICIALS BECOME
ESSENTIALLY FIGUREHEADS TO A
GREAT DEGREE, I MEAN, STATE
PROBABLY LESS THAN OTHERS.
I'VE THING IS MICROMANAGED FROM
THE WHITE HOUSE.
THE IDEA THAT THE HEALTHCARE
PLAN, THE BIGGEST INITIATIVE OF
THIS ADMINISTRATION, THE MOST
HISTORIC ACTION WAS NOT GOING TO
BE MANAGED BY THE WHITE HOUSE
WAS JUST ABSOLUTELY -- IT JUST
COULDN'T BE TRUE.
THEY WERE ON IT AND IN IT UP TO
THEIR EYEBROWS SO, WHEN IT WENT
WRONG, SOMEBODY HAD TO TAKE THE
HIT, AND THAT WAS KATHLEEN
SEBELIUS.
SHE TOOK IT.
SHE WAS SECRETARY OF H.H.S.,
STEPPED UP MANFULLY, TO USE A
BAD ADD VERB, SHE TOOK
RESPONSIBILITY, ACCOUNTABILITY,
APOLOGIZED, AND IF IT WORKS --
BECAUSE THE RULE IS VERY SIMPLE,
ANYTHING THAT GOES RIGHT THE
PRESIDENT GETS CREDIT.
ANYTHING THAT GOES WRONG, IT
GOES TO SOMEONE ELSE.
IF THIS WORKS OUT ANDEA
TURNS OUT THE WAY SUPPORTERS AND
MANY AMERICANS WANT IT TO, ALL
CREDIT GOES TO PRESIDENT OBAMA.
FIT DOESN'T, KATHLEEN WILL BE
BLAMED, FAIRLY OR UNFAIRLY.
>> WILL SHE GET SOME OF THE
CREDIT, THOUGH, DAVID, IF THIS
WORKS OUT IN THE LONG, LONG RUN?
>> I GUESS SO.
IF IT WORKS OUT IN THE LONG,
LONG RUN.
WE REMEMBER PERKINS WHO WAS
INSTRUMENTAL IN PASSING SOCIAL
SECURITY AND SHE GETS CREDIT FOR
THAT.
IF IT WORKS OUT IN THE LONG RUN,
AND I'M SKEPTICAL, SHE WILL GET
SOME CREDIT.
MARK'S RIGHT.
I HAVEN'T BEEN THRILLED THE WAY
THE PRESIDENT OFF-LOADED BLAME
DURING THE WHOLE WEB PAGE
FIASCO.
I THINK HE PUBLIC LIG SHOULD NOT
HAVE DONE THAT.
I THINK HE SHOULD HAVE TAKEN IT
ON HIMSELF AS A LEADERSHIP
TECHNIQUE.
IT'S FAIR TO SAY A COUPLE OF
THINGS.
SOMETIMES TO MOVE AN
ORGANIZATION, YOU HAVE TO BE A
DYNAMO AND IT SEEMS SHE WAS
THAT.
ALSO TRUE, SECRETARY DO NOT RUN
THEIR AGENCIES.
THE AGENCIES RUN AGENCIES AND
THE SECRETARY CAN ONLY RUN
WHAT'S GOING ON.
IT WAS ALWAYS GOING TO BE HARD
TO GET GOVERNMENT WORKERS NOT
SILICONE VALLEY TECH GEEKS TO
START UP A PRETTY AMBITIOUS
WEB SITE AND, SO, I'M A LITTLE
LESS DOWN ON HER THAN IS THE
COMMON CURRENCY RIGHT NOW IN
WASHINGTON.
>> I WOULD TAKE EXCEPTION WITH
DAVID IN THE SENSE THAT, I MEAN,
I'M SURE DAVID TALKS TO A LOT OF
PEOPLE.
I THINK THAT KATHLEEN GOT HIGH
MARKS FROM THE KIND OF CLIQUES
IN THE CABINET IN WASHINGTON.
THE PEOPLE WHOM I KNOW AND I
RESPECT, WHOSE PERFORMANCE I
RESPECT WERE HIGH ON KATHLEEN.
THE PEOPLE WHO WORKED FOR HER
WERE FIERCELY LOYAL AND VERY
COMMITTED AND KIND OF EMOTIONAL.
SHE WAS TWICE ELECTED AS A
DEMOCRATIC GOVERNOR OF KANSAS,
THE REDDEST OF THE REPUBLICAN
STATES, AND ONE OF THE FIVE BEST
GOVERNORS IN THE COUNTRY,
ACCORDING TO "TIME MAGAZINE."
SHE WAS A PERSON OF CONSIDERABLE
ACCOMPLISHMENT WHEN SHE CAME
HERE AND KEY TO BARACK OBAMA.
WITHOUT BARACK OBAMA -- WHEN
HILLARY CLINTON BECAME THE WOMAN
CANDIDATE IN 2007, KATHLEEN
SEBELIUS WAS ONE OF THE FEW
MAJOR WOMEN OFFICE HOLDERS WHO
ENDORSED BARACK OBAMA.
>> NOW THEY'VE NAMED ANOTHER
WOMAN, DAVID, SYLVIA BURWELL
RUNNING OFF THE BUDGET
MANAGEMENT TO TAKE HER PLACE.
DOES THIS ALLOW THE
ADMINISTRATION TO GET A FRESH
START WITH HEALTHCARE?
>> I DON'T THINK THE CHANGEOVER
OF THE CABINET SECRETARY WILL
CHANGE ANYBODY'S OPINION.
IT STRIKES ME AS A GOOD CHOICE.
BURWELL OVERCAME DISADVANTAGES,
WENT TO HARVARD, GOT A
SCHOLARSHIP, BUT DECIDE THOSE
DISADVANTAGES, SHE'S DONE WELL
(LAUGHTER)
SHE'S WORKED THROUGH THE CLINTON
AND OBAMA, AND HAS STERLING
REPUTATION FOR INTELLIGENCE,
POLICY KNOWLEDGE, EXPERIENCE AND
MANAGEMENT IMPLEMENTATION
SKILLS.
SO IF YOU WALKED AROUND THE
OBAMA WHITE HOUSE LOOKING FOR
PEOPLE WITH THE TOP REPUTATIONS,
SHE CERTAINLY WOULD BE AMONG
THEM.
>> I THINK IT WAS A GOOD CHOICE,
PUT THE REPUBLICANS, WHO MADE
ObamaCare AND AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT THEIR SENATE PIECE ON
WHAT THEY STAND FOR -- AND
THAT'S IT, THEY STAND FOR
OPPOSITION TO IT -- IT'S GOING
TO BE TOUGH TO OPPOSE HER VOTED
96-0 TO CONFIRM HER.
>> Woodruff: UNANIMOUS.
THAT'S RIGHT.
IT WAS GOING THE BE TOUGH TO
OPPOSE HER.
IT'S NOT A NEW START, BUT YOU
DON'T HAVE THE FACE THERE ANY
LONGER YOU CAN BLAME AND USE AS
A TARGET I POLITICALLY.
YOU CAN'T BLAME HER.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEK WE ALSO
OBSERVED THE ANNIVERSARY OF
ANOTHER BIG, BIG PIECE OF
LEGISLATION, THE 1964 CIVIL
RIGHTS ACT.
THE WHOLE WEEK WE'VE HEARD A LOT
ABOUT IT.
HOW DO YOU BELIEVE THE CIVIL CIL
RIGHTS ACT CHANGED THIS COUNTRY?
>> IT'S ONE TO HAVE THE GREATEST
PIECES OF LEGISLATION OF THE
20th CENTURY, ASIDE OF THE
LEGAL EFFECT ON HOW WE ENFORCE
LAWS, IT SENT A MARKER OF
DISCRIMINATION OF ALL SORTS WAS
NOT GOING TO BE TOLERATED AND,
OF COURSE, IT'S BEEN AN
IMPERFECT JOURNEY ALONG THAT
ROUTE, BUT THE INTELLECTUAL
SHIFT HAPPENED WITH THAT LAW AND
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE MOTIVATED BY
UNFAIRNESS WERE ON THE DEFENSIVE
AND IT ACCELERATED THE
INCREASING FAIRNESS OF SOCIETY.
THE ONE THING I'VE SAID ABOUT
THE COVERAGE OF IT, SEEMS TO ME
A LITTLE POLITICALLY HEAVY, A
LITTLE L.B.J. HEAVY.
SOME OF THE MOMENTUM, TO ME A
CRUCIAL EVENT WAS THE MARCH ON
WASHINGTON.
WHEN PHILLIP RANDOLPH INITIATED
THE MARCH, THERE WAS OPPOSITION
FROM CIVIL RIGHTS GROUPS.
ONLY AFTER BIRMINGHAM THAT YOU
GOT MOMENTUM BEHIND THIS.
TO PASS LEGISLATION, IT HELPS TO
HAVE A GIGANTIC SOCIAL MOVEMENT
FIRST AND HARD TO DO IT WITHOUT
IT.
>> Woodruff: OUT IN THE
COUNTRY.
>> WALTER OF THE UNITED WORKERS
WAS THE ORGANIZER, ARCHITECT AND
PRODUCER OF THAT.
BUT IT WAS TRANCE FORMATIONAL,
THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT.
I WAS THERE THE NIGHT IT PASSED
THE SENATE IN 1964.
>> Woodruff: YOU WERE THERE IN
THE --
>> I WAS.
1965, WAY DOWN THE PREDICATE, IT
CHANGED, JUDY, THAT AN
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COULD GO
INTO McDONALD'S AND BUY A HOT
DOG OR HAMBURGER OR WHATEVER.
IT WAS FEDERAL LAW THAT THERE
WAS DISCRIMINATION IN MOVIE
THEATERS AND BUS STATIONS, IN
TRANSPORTATION, IN HOTELS,
MOTELS.
THAT CHANGED.
BUT 65 WAS THE KEY.
THAT WAS THE VOTING.
>> Woodruff: THE VOTING.
THAT WAS ACTUAL POWER AT THE
POLLING PLACE, AND TO ME THAT
WAS THE KEY.
WITHOUT '64, YOU WOULD NEVER GET
TO '65.
AND LYNDON JOHNSON WAS CENTRAL.
HE WAS DOMINANT, MAKE NO MISTAKE
ABOUT IT.
HE WAS A MAN LIKE ALL OF US WITH
FAULTS, BUT HE WAS A
LEGISLATURE/EXECUTIVE UNMATCHED.
>> Woodruff: 49 YEARS LATER
WE'RE STILL TALKING ABOUT VOTING
RIGHTS.
AS MARK SAID, DAVID, THE LAW
THAT PASSED THE YEAR AFTER THE
CIVIL RIGHTS.
>> RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT'S THE MAIN
UNREALIZED PROMISE OF BOTH THOSE
PIECES OF LEGISLATION?
>> WELL, IT'S THE INEQUALITY OF
THE COMMISSIONS THIS MANY YEARS
AFTER THE CIVILRIGHTS,
AFRICAN-AMERICANS STILL HAVE
LOWER GRADUATION AND INCOMES.
THERE ARE STILL INEQUALITIES,
AND NOT ONLY OF OPPORTUNITIES
BUT DEFINED ALONG RACIAL LINES,
AND THAT'S A REMAINING CHALLENGE
AND MORE A CHALLENGE OF ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY AND SOCIAL POLICY,
LESS OF SOME OF THE LEGAL STUFF.
BUT IT REMAINS A CORE STAIN ON
OUR SOCIETY IS THE COLOR OF SKIN
IS REALLY AN ADVANTAGE OR
DISADVANTAGE TO YOU DURING THE
COURSE OF YOUR LIFE.
>> I AGREE WITH WHAT DAVID SAID.
I ADD THAT COLIN POWELL PUT IT
BLUNTLY WHEN HE SPOKE IN
NORTH CAROLINA TO A GROUP OF
BUSINESSMEN, ON THE RESTRICTIVE
VOTER I.D. LAW, HE SAYS THERE IS
NO VOTER FRAUD, THERE IS NONE.
AND ALL THE VOTER I.D. LAWS THAT
HAVE BEEN PASSED SINCE THE
SUPREME COURT DECISION LAST YEAR
LIMITING THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT
ARE INTENDED FOR ONE PURPOSE AND
THAT'S TO SUPPRESS NON-WHITE
VOTERS, AND THAT REMAINS A PART
OF UNFINISHED BUSINESS IN OUR
POLITICS.
>> Woodruff: WHEN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT VOTING, AND IT'S
THIS YEAR, OF COURSE THE
MID-TERM ELECTION 2016, IT'S
NEVER TOO SOON TO TALK ABOUT
THAT.
TWO PROMINENT MAYBE CANDIDATES,
FORMER FLORIDA GOVERNOR JEB PUSH
REPEATING HIS SUPPORT FOR
IMMIGRATION REFORM AND THE
COMMON CORE WHICH WE HEARD
JEFF'S CONVERSATIONS ABOUT.
CONSERVATIVES JUFERRED ON HIM.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN IN DO YOU
THINK HE'S GOING TO RUN?
WHAT'S YOUR THINKING ABOUT JEB
BUSH?
>> I PERSONALLY DON'T THINK
HE'LL RUN, JUST A GUESS, BASED
ON NO KNOWLEDGE, SIMPLY BECAUSE
HE'S NOT SHOWN INTENSE DESIRE IN
THE PAST.
I'VE NEVER SEEN A CANDIDATE
WHERE THAT INTENSE DESIRE
FLOWERS IN MIDDLE AGE.
YOU'RE BORN WITH IT OR
SOMETHING.
I THINK HE'S RIGHT ON BOTH
SUBJECTS AND REMINISCENT OF
WHERE HIS BROTHER WAS AND WHERE
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY USED TO BE
NOT TOO LONG AGO IN SUPPORT OF
COMMON CORE WRITE MUCH HIGHER
THAN STATE STANDARDS AND IN
SUPPORT OF AN IMMIGRATION
POLICY.
IT'S HARDER THAN WHEN HIS
BROTHER WAS IN FOR THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY.
>> THERE ARE FIVE MINUTES TO
MIDNIGHT CONSERVATIVITIES AND
FIVE MINUTES TO SUNRISE
CONSERVATIVES.
TO MIDNIGHT, BAD TO WORSE.
TO SUN RISE ARE THINGS ARE BAD
BUT WILL GET BETTER.
JEB BUSH IS VERY MUCH IN THE
SECOND CATEGORY IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY AND ESPECIALLY
THE CONGRESSIONAL PARTY IS
OVERLOADED WITH FIVE MINUTES TO
MIDNIGHT CONSERVATIVES.
THEY'RE HOPING ObamaCare
IMPLODS AND THINGS GET WORSE AND
UNEMPLOYMENT RISES.
I THINK IN THAT SENSE HE BRINGS
SOMETHING TO THE RACE THAT IT
DESPERATELY NEEDS.
THERE'S ONE NUMBER TO LOOK AT TO
DECIDE WHETHER HE RUNS.
HE HAS BILLION A 40-INCH WAIST.
IF IT GOES TO 38, I'LL SAY HE'LL
RUN.
>> THEN HE'LL BE A
5:00 SOMEWHERE CONSERVATIVE.
>> Woodruff: HILLARY CLINTON,
THE OTHER POSSIBLE PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE HAD A SHOE THROWN AT
HER, MARK, IN LAS VEGAS
YESTERDAY.
SHE DUCKED.
WHAT DOES IT SAY ABOUT HER
CHARACTER?
>> SHE HANDLED IT SUPERBLY.
QUITE A FEW UNSCRIPTED MOMENTS
IN POLITICS.
ONE WAS YESTERDAY.
SHE SHOWED HUMOR, GRACE AND A
CERTAIN SELF-DEPRECATING
QUALITY.
>> THROW A FLIP PLOP, NOT A BIG
SHOE.
THROW SOMETHING CHALLENGING.
>> Woodruff: LOOKED LIKE A
HEAVY SHOE.
>> THROW SOMETHING SYMBOLIC, NOT
TO HURT ANYBODY.
>> Woodruff: YOU GUYS ARE BOTH
A CIRQUE DU SOLEIL EVERY WEEK.
DAVID BROOKS, MARK SHIELDS,
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, THE POWER
OF WORDS IN THE FIGHT FOR CIVIL
RIGHTS.
THIS WEEK, WE'VE EXPLORED THE
LEGACY OF MONUMENTAL MOMENTS IN
THE COUNTRY'S STRUGGLE TOWARD
EQUALITY, FROM MARIAN ANDERSON'S
HISTORIC PERFORMANCE ON THE
STEPS OF THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL TO
LANDMARK LEGISLATION SPEARHEADED
BY PRESIDENT LYNDON JOHNSON.
TONIGHT, JEFF CONTINUES HIS
TRAVELS WITH U.S. POET LAUREATE
NATASHA TRETHEWEY TO DISCOVER
"WHERE POETRY LIVES," THIS TIME
TO HER NATIVE MISSISSIPPI AND
ENDING WITH A MARCH IN SELMA,
ALABAMA.
(SINGING)
>> IT WAS A JOURNEY OF MEMORY
INCLUDING THE PAINFUL ONE OF
KILLING MEDGAR EVERS IN THE
DRIVEWAY OF HIS MISSISSIPPI HOME
IN 1963.
>> TO ME YOU'RE STANDING ON HALL
LOAD GROUND.
>> THIS DAY HIS WIDOW, DAUGHTER
AND OTHERS PAID HONOR.
>> THIS ONE MAN GAVE HIS BLOOD
TO HELP FREE NOT JUST OUR PEOPLE
BUT A NATION.
WE'RE GRATEFUL.
>> Brown: IT WAS A JOURNEY OF
LANGUAGE, THE POWER OF WORDS TO
MOVE A NATION.
>> IF I COULD HAVE YOUR
ATTENTION --
>> Brown: THE ANNUAL CIVIL
RIGHTS PILGRIMAGE FOUNDED 40
YEARS AGO TO COMMEMORATE KEY
EVENTS FROM THE REAR AND BRING
POLITICIANS FROM BOTH SIDES OF
THE AISLE TOGETHER FROM
ACTIVISTS FROM THEN AND NOW.
THIS YEAR POET LAUREATE NATASHA
TRETHEWEY AND I JOINED IN FOR
THAT TURNED OUT TO BE A DEEPLY
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE FOR HER.
NATASHA GREW UP IN MISSISSIPPI
THE DAUGHTER OF A BLACK MOTHER
AND WHITE FATHER.
>> I FEEL LIKE I GREW UP IN SORT
OF THE INTERSECTION BETWEEN
SEVERAL WAR HISTORY, CIVIL
RIGHTS HISTORY AND THEN THAT
MOMENT INTO WHICH IT WAS BORN
AND IT IS THE SCAFFOLDING THAT
HOLDS UP ALL THE THINGS I'M
CONCERNED ABOUT AS A POET.
COMMIT COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL
JUSTICE UNDERGIRDS MY POEMS.
>> Brown: MORE THAN THREE
DAYS, MORE THAN 100 PARTICIPANTS
TRAVELED BY BUS TO THE
MISSISSIPPI DELTA.
CLARKSDALE ON TO JACKSON AND
INTO ALABAMA FOR A MARCH IN
SELMA.
IN JACKSON, THEY VISITED A AN
HISTORICALLY BLACK LIBERAL ARTS
SCHOOL FOUNDED BY CHRISTIAN
MISSIONARIES FOR FREED SLAVES.
>> PEOPLE GATHERED AFTER THE
ASSASSINATION OF MEDGAR EVERS --
>> Brown: THEY HEARD FROM
DR. KING ONE OF THE ORGANIZERS
OF THE 1964 FREEDOM SUMMER WHO
DELIVERED THE SERMON AT THE IF
YOU RECALL FOR JAMES CHENEY,
ANDREW GOODWIN AND OTHERS
MURDERED NEARBY THAT SUMMER.
>> THE ANGELS GATHERED --
>> Brown: NATASHA READ A POEM
BASED ON WITNESSING A CROSS
BURNING ON HER FAMILY'S LAWN.
>> WE TELL THE STORY EVERY YEAR
HOW WE PEERED WITH FROM THE
WINDOWS, SHADES DRAWN, THOUGH
NOTHING REALLY HAPPENED.
THE CHARRED GRASS NOW GREEN
AGAIN.
WE PEERED FROM THE WINDOWS,
SHADES DRAWN, AT THE CROSS
TRUSSED LIKE A CHRISTMAS TREE,
THE CHARRED GRASS STILL GREEN.
THEN WE DARKENED OUR ROOMS, LIT
THE HURRICANE LAMPS.
AT THE CROSS, TRUSSED LIKE A
CHRISTMAS TREE, A FEW MEN
GATHERED, WHITE AS ANGELS IN
THEIR GOWNS.
WE DARKENED OUR ROOMS AND LIT
HURRICANE LAMPS.
THE WICKS TREMBLING IN THEIR
FONTS OF OIL.
>> Brown: AFTERWARDS, NATASHA
AND REVEREND KING TALKED ABOUT
POETRY'S ROLE IN THE MOVEMENT.
>> DO YOU THINK OF POETRY?
I THINK I CERTAINLY DO SEE IT AS
ANOTHER KIND OF -- ANOTHER NORM
FORM OF SACRED LANGUAGE.
>> IT'S THERE, AND IN THE MUSIC
OF THE FREEDOM SONGS, WE COULD
HOLD ON TO EACH OTHER.
WE COULD EXPRESS OUR FEARS
TOGETHER THAT WE COULD NEVER
QUITE SAY OUT LOUD.
I'M AFRAID, BUT I'LL GO AHEAD.
>> RIGHT.
BUT WE COULD SING WE'RE NOT
AFRAID BECAUSE WE WERE.
SO MUSIC IS A FORM OF -- A
POETIC FORM OF TELLING THE
TRUTH.
WE SHALL OVERCOME
>> Brown: IN JACKSON DOWN THE
STREET FROM THE STATE CAPITOL,
THERE WAS A SERVICE AT THE
GALLOWAY UNITED METHODIST
CHURCH, ONE TIME A
SEGREGATIONEST CONGREGATION WHO
LOST MANY MEMBERS WHEN IT OPENED
DOORS TO BLACKS IN 1967.
HOUSE MAJORITY LEADER ERIC
CANTOR WAS ONE OF THE REPUBLICAN
REPRESENTATIVES WHO MADE THE
TRIP.
IN HIS CASE FOR A SECOND TIME.
>> I THINK IT INCREASES THE
SENSITIVITY FOR ALL OF US TO
NEVER EVER AGAIN ALLOW SOMETHING
LIKE THIS AND THE HATRED THAT
PRODUCED THE CIVIL RIGHTS
MOVEMENT FOR THE STRUGGLE FOR
JUSTICE TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
CONTINUE THAT FIGHT AND NOT EVER
ALLOW THAT HATRED TO COME BACK
IN.
>> Brown: THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI, IN FACT, IS
CURRENTLY BUILDING TWO MUSEUMS
ABOUT ITS HISTORY WITH A FOCUS
ON CIVIL RIGHTS.
HALLELUJAH...
>> Brown: BUT WILLIAM WINTER
SPOKE OF MORE TROUBLED TIMES.
>> WE WASTED 20 YEARS, AND I
APOLOGIZE TO THE PEOPLE OF
MISSISSIPPI FOR NOT HAVING
ASSERTED MORE LEADERSHIP.
YOU FREED US, TOO.
>> Brown: THE LAST DAY OF THE
PILGRIMAGE WAS SPENT IN SELMA,
ALABAMA.
ONE SIGN OF ENORMOUS CHANGES
HERE, TERRI SEWELL, THE FIRST
BLACK VAL KICK TORIAN OF SELMA
HIGH AND NOW THE STATE'S FIRST
BLACK CONGRESSWOMAN.
FOR HER, THIS TRIP WASN'T SO
MUCH ABOUT MEMORY AS LEGACY.
>> OLD BATTLES ARE NEW, PROGRESS
IS ALWAYS ELUSIVE.
IT'S IMPORTANT WE NEVER FORGET
WHAT HAPPENED ON THIS BRIDGE AND
THAT WE ARE EVER VIGILANT IN
FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT TO VOTE.
(SINGING)
>> Brown: 49 YEARS AGO, THE
BROWN CHAPEL SERVED AS A
STARTING POINT FOR THE 1965
SELMA TO MONTGOMERY MARCHS FOR
VOTING RIGHTS.
JOHN LEWIS DESCRIBED WHAT WOULD
BECOME KNOWN AS BLOODY SUNDAY
WHEN POLICE USED BILLY CLUBS AND
TEAR GAS AGAINST THE 600
MARCHERS WHO CROSSED THE EDMUND
PETTUS BRIDGE.
>> I THOUGHT I WAS GOING TO DIE.
>> Brown: WE TALKED AFTER THE
SERVICE.
I WAS LISTENING TO YOU INSIDE
TALKING ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED HERE
49 YEARS AGO.
IT SOUNDS LIKE IT'S FRESH
MEMORIES TO YOU.
>> THERE'S NOT ANY WAY THAT I
CAN FORGET WHAT HAPPENED HERE 49
YEARS AGO.
IT'S JUST AS FRESH AS THE
MORNING DEW.
>> Brown: FRESH AS --
JUST AS FRESH AS THE AIR WE
BREATHE HERE IN ALABAMA.
I GREW UP NOT TOO FAR FROM HERE.
>> Brown: HOW IMPORTANT WAS
LANGUAGE AND WORDS TO WHAT
HAPPENED IN THESE MARCHS?
>> WORDS MEANT EVERYTHING.
WORDS, MUSIC.
WITHOUT WORDS, WITHOUT THE
SPOKEN WORD, SELMA AND THE
MOVEMENT WOULD HAVE BEEN LIKE A
BIRD WITHOUT WINGS.
>> Brown: THERE WERE MORE
WORDS AND MUSIC A AS THIS YEAR'S
PILGRIMAGE CONCLUDED WITH A
MARCH OVER THE BRIDGE.
WHEN WE FIRST TALKED ABOUT THE
PROJECT, THIS EVENT IS THE FIRST
YOU TOLD ME ABOUT.
>> FOR ME IT HAD TO DO WITH MY
OWN WORK, MY OWN POEMS, BUT IN A
LARGER SENSE WHAT I THINK ABOUT
THE NECESSITY FOR AMERICAN
POETRY IN GENERAL AND THAT IS
FOR A KIND OF RECORDING OF OUR
CULTURAL MOMENT AND TO RECORD
THE HISTORY OF A PEOPLE.
(SINGING)
>> Brown: AS THE PILGRIMAGE
CAME TO AN END, JOHN LEWIS ON A
BULLHORN NEARY HE WAS BEATEN
NEARLY HALF A CENTURY AGO TOLD
THE CROWD THE MOVEMENT CONTINUES
TODAY.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, YOU CAN
WATCH THE FULL READING OF
NATASHA'S POEM, "INCIDENT," AND
READ HER REFLECTIONS FROM THE
TRIP.
THAT'S ON OUR POETRY PAGE.
AGAIN, THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS
OF THE DAY:
STOCKS FELL AGAIN, WITH THE
NASDAQ DOWN ANOTHER 50 POINTS,
OR MORE THAN 1%.
THE DOW INDUSTRIALS LOST 140
POINTS.
AND THE WHITE HOUSE CONFIRMED
IRAN'S NEW AMBASSADOR TO THE
U.N. WILL BE BARRED FROM
ENTERING THE COUNTRY BECAUSE OF
HIS ROLE IN SEIZING THE U.S.
EMBASSY IN IRAN IN 1979.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM OUR PBS
COLLEAGUES.
GWEN HAS BEEN PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK ," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW.
OINT PERSON ON
HEALTHCARE STEPS DOWN.
WHAT CHALLENGES WILL HER
SUCCESSOR INHERIT?
PLUS THE DEBATE OVER INEQUALITY,
POLITICAL DYNASTIES AND THE
CIVIL RIGHTS ACT 50 YEARS LATER.
TONIGHT ON WASHINGTON WEEK.
JUDY
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND LOOKS AT
CITIES TURNING TO PRIVATE
COMPANIES TO COLLECT COURT FEEST
PAYING.
CORRESPONDENT JOHN CALROS FREY
PROFILES THE EXPERIENCE OF ONE
FAMILY, THE FUGATTS IN
CHILDERSBERG, ALABAMA-- WHO
FOUND THEMSELVES IN TROUBLE
AFTER GETTING MINOR TRAFFIC
VIOLATIONS.
>> Reporter: FUGATT SAYS HE DID
THE BEST HE COULD TO PAY OFF HIS
FAMILY'S FINES, BUT SAYS WHEN HE
COULDN'T CONTINUE TO PAY AND HE
AND HIS WIFE MISSED AT LEAST ONE
COURT DATE, THEY WERE ARRESTED
AND JAILED.
>> I FELT COMPLETELY LIKE A
CRIMINAL.
I MEAN, I DIDN'T SELL DRUGS.
I DIDN'T BREAK INTO ANYONE'S
HOME.
I DIDN'T KILL ANYBODY.
I HAD AN EXPIRED TAG.
>> Reporter: SO YOU AND YOUR
WIFE WERE FOUND NOT GUILTY OF
THE TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS, BUT
STILL YOU WERE BEING ARRESTED.
>> WE WERE BEING ARRESTED,S.
I WAS VERY UPSET, VERY ANGRY
>> Reporter: THEY WERE RELEASED
SEVERAL HOURS LATER WHEN A
RELATIVE PAID A PORTION OF WHAT
THEY OWED.
>> Reporter: THAT INCIDENT
CONTRIBUTED TO THE FUGATT'S
DECISION TO BECOME PART OF A
LAWSUIT AGAINST JUDICIAL
CORRECTIONS SERVICES AND THE
TOWN OF CHILDERSBERG.
THE SUIT ALLEGES THAT
INCARCERATING PEOPLE WHO CAN'T
PAY THEIR FINES VIOLATES THE
CONSTITUTION.
>> Woodruff: AND WE'LL BE BACK,
RIGHT HERE, ON MONDAY.
JEFF REPORTS FROM MYANMAR FOR A
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.